Mnemonic:  SHIELDS
Shortest abbreviation:  SH
Full commands:  SHIELDS UP
                SHIELDS DOWN
                SHIELDS TRANSFER <amount of energy to transfer>

Your deflector shields are a defensive device to protect you from
Klingon attacks (and nearby novas).  As the shields protect you, they
gradually weaken.  A shield strength of 75%, for example, means that
the next time a Klingon hits you, your shields will deflect 75% of
the hit, and let 25% get through to hurt you.

It costs 50 units of energy to raise shields, nothing to lower them.
You may move with your shields up; this costs nothing under impulse
power, but doubles the energy required for warp drive.

Each time you raise or lower your shields, the Klingons have another
chance to attack.  Since shields do not raise and lower
instantaneously, the hits you receive will be intermediate between
what they would be if the shields were completely up or completely
down.

You may not fire phasers through your shields.  However you may use
the "high-speed shield control" to lower shields, fire phasers, and
raise the shields again before the Klingons can react.  Since rapid
lowering and raising of the shields requires more energy than normal
speed operation, it costs you 200 units of energy to activate this
control.  It is automatically activated when you fire phasers while
shields are up.  You may fire photon torpedoes, but they may be
deflected considerably from their intended course as they pass
through the shields (depending on shield strength).

You may transfer energy between the ship's energy (given as "Energy"
in the status) and the shields.  Thee word "TRANSFER" may be
abbreviated "T".  The amount of energy to transfer is the number of
units of energy you wish to take from the ship's energy and put into
the shields.  If you specify an negative number, energy is drained
from the shields to the ship.  Transferring energy constitutes a turn.
If you transfer energy to the shields while you are under attack,
they will be at the new energy level when you are next hit.

Enemy torpedoes hitting your ship explode on your shields (if they
are up) and have essentially the same effect as phaser hits.
